add docs for docker images on dockerhub (#1012)
dolthub/docs: content/introduction/installation/docker.md

# Docker

You can get Dolt Docker container using our [official Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/u/dolthub).
Both the images supports `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` platforms and updated on every release of [Dolt repository](https://doltdb.com).

> Older versions are also available as tagged with its Dolt version. The source of the Dockerfiles can be found [here](https://github.com/dolthub/dolt/tree/main/docker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get a Dolt Docker container using our [official Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/u/dolthub).
Both images support `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` platforms and updated on every release of [Dolt](https://doltdb.com).
Older versions are also available, and tagged with the Dolt version they contain. The source of the Dockerfiles can be found [here](https://github.com/dolthub/dolt/tree/main/docker)
```

## Docker Image for Dolt CLI

[The Dolt CLI Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dolthub/dolt) is useful if you need a container that already has 
the Dolt CLI installed on it. For example, this image is a good fit if you are performing data analysis and want to 
work in a containerized environment, or if you are building an application that needs to invoke Dolt from the command 
line and also needs to run in a container. 

Running this image is equivalent as running `dolt` command. You can get the latest version with `latest` tag, 

> or you can get specific version that works for you with e.g. `0.50.8` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running this image is equivalent to running the `dolt` command. You can get the latest version with `latest` tag, 
or you can get a specific, older version by using the Dolt version you want as the image's tag (e.g. `0.50.8`).
```

```shell
> docker pull dolthub/dolt:latest
> docker run dolthub/dolt:latest version
dolt version 0.50.10
>
> docker pull dolthub/dolt:0.50.8
> docker run dolthub/dolt:0.50.8 version
dolt version 0.50.8
```

## Docker Image for Dolt SQL-Server

We have [a Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dolthub/dolt-sql-server) for `dolt sql-server` creates a container 
with dolt installed in it and starts a SQL Server when running the container. It is similar to MySQL Docker image. 
Running this image without any arguments is equivalent to running `dolt sql-server --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3306` 
command locally, which is a default setting for the server in the container. The reason for persisted host
and port is that it allows user to connect to the server inside the container from the local host system through

> port-mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The Dolt sql-server Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dolthub/dolt-sql-server) creates a container 
with dolt installed and starts a Dolt SQL server when running the container. It is similar to MySQL's Docker image. 
Running this image without any arguments is equivalent to running `dolt sql-server --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3306` 
command locally, which is the default settings for the server in the container. The persisted host
and port allows user to connect to the server from inside the container and from the local host system through
port-mapping.
```

To check out supported options for `dolt sql-server`, you can run the image with `--help` flag.

```bash
> docker run dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest --help
```

### Connect to the server in the container from the host system

To be able to connect to the server running in the container, we need to set up a port to connect to locally that
maps to the port in the container. The host is set to `0.0.0.0` for accepting connections to any available network
interface.

```bash
> docker run -p 3307:3306 dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest
```

If we run the command above with -d or switch to a separate window we can connect with MySQL (empty password by default):

```bash
> mysql --host 0.0.0.0 -P 3307 -u root
```

### Define configuration for the server

> You can either define server configuration as commandline arguments, or you can use yaml configuration file.
> For the commandline argument definition you can simply define arguments after whole docker command.

Reviewer: This is a nice place to link to some other server configuration content... 

```suggestion
You can either define server configuration as command line arguments, or you can use yaml configuration file.
For the command line argument definition you can simply define arguments at the end of the docker command. See [the Dolt server configuration documentation](https://docs.dolthub.com/sql-reference/server/configuration) for more details and available options. 
```

# Docker

You can get Dolt Docker container from building your own Docker Image or using our [official Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/u/dolthub).

> Both the images supports `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get a Dolt Docker container by building your own Docker image or using our [official Docker images on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/dolthub).
Both images support `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` platforms.
```

## Quickstart

> Building your own Dolt Docker image is very simple. Dolt can be run in Docker with a few short commands.

Reviewer: I'm kind of questioning if we even need this section about building your own image. I think we're better off to just point people towards the official DockerHub images. My reasoning is that 1) we want people using the official images so we can take any feedback and make them better for everybody, and 2) if you're building your own image (especially when there's one already available), then you're probably more advanced and doing it for a specific reason, so we probably don't need to spell out a simple example.

4. Verify Docker is installed and exit:
```bash
[root@cf04a2e8c538 /]# dolt version
dolt version 0.50.10
[root@cf04a2e8c538 /]# exit
exit
>
```

> ## Docker Image for Dolt CLI

Reviewer: Always good to be consistent with the existing style/formatting/patterns of the existing doc... for example this section is "Docker Image for Dolt CLI", but the next section is "Dolt Sql-Server". You should make these match.

> Above image is available on DockerHub as well. [Dolt CLI Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dolthub/dolt) is updated on 

Reviewer: It would be really awesome to help explain to customers when they'd want to use this CLI image. I'd probably explain it by something like... The Dolt CLI Docker image is useful if you need a container that already has the Dolt CLI installed on it. For example, this image is a good fit if you are performing data analysis and want to work in a containerized environment, or if you are building an application that needs to invoke Dolt from the command line and also needs to run in a container. 

You could potentially even mention how you could map in a disk location to use the dolt CLI from the container with data that is accessible from outside the container. 

Giving readers those concrete examples will help make it click for them on why they might want to use this one.

every release of Dolt repository. Older versions are also available as tagged with its Dolt version. Running this image
is equivalent as running `dolt` command.

You can get the latest version with `latest` tag, or you can get specific version that works for you with e.g. `0.50.8` tag.

```shell
> docker pull dolthub/dolt:latest
> docker run dolthub/dolt:latest version
dolt version 0.50.10
>
> docker pull dolthub/dolt:0.50.8
> docker run dolthub/dolt:0.50.8 version
dolt version 0.50.8
```

> ## Dolt SQL-Server <a name="sql-server"></a>

Reviewer: Is this anchor tag doing anything? I think we can already link to sections, so seems like we shouldn't need this.

Reviewer: Similar comment for this section about what we should emphasize in the docs... I think it'd be better to point people to the official Docker sql-server image, and if they can use that as their example. That'll also help keep this doc shorter and feel easier/simpler/less-complex to the reader.

db_1  | TRACE: returning result row [INT64(1)]
```

## Docker Image for Dolt SQL-Server

> We have [a Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dolthub/dolt-sql-server) for `dolt sql-server` creates a container 

Reviewer: "Docker Image" should be "Docker image" : "Docker" is a proper noun; "image" is not. The section title on line 125 is fine of course since it's a heading and all main words are capitalized, but would be good to check the rest of the doc for this for consistency.

with dolt installed in it and starts a SQL Server when running the container. It is similar to MySQL Docker Image. 
Running this image without any arguments is equivalent to running `dolt sql-server --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3306` 
command locally, which is a default setting for the server in the container. The reason for persisted host
and port is that it allows user to connect to the server inside the container from the local host system through
port-mapping.

To check out supported options for `dolt sql-server`, you can run the image with `--help` flag.

```bash

> > docker run dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest --help

Reviewer: neat! this is a super useful example to show readers.

```bash
> docker run -p 3307:3306 -v /Users/jennifer/docker/server:/etc/dolt/servercfg.d dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest
```

The Dolt configuration and data directories can be configured similarly:

- The dolt configuration directory is `/etc/dolt/doltcfg.d/`
  There should be one `.json` dolt configuration file. It will replace the global dolt configuration file in the
  container.

- We set the location of where data to be stored to default location at `/var/lib/dolt/` in the container.
  The data directory does not need to be defined in server configuration for container, but to store the data
  on the host system, it can also be mounted to this default location.

```shell
> docker run -p 3307:3306 -v /Users/jennifer/docker/databases:/var/lib/dolt dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest
```

There will be directory called `/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d` inside the container, and all appropriate files including
`.sh` or `.sql` files. They will be run after server has started. This is useful for such as setting up your 
database with importing data by providing SQL dump file.

### Let's look at an example

> Here is how I set up my directories to be mounted. I have three directory to mount in directory called `shared`, 
> - `databases` is empty and for storing my data,
> - `dolt` has single `.json` file and for dolt configuration
> - `server` has a single `.yaml` file and for server configuration

Reviewer: I love this concrete example!!

just a little minor wordsmithing... 

```suggestion
Here is how I set up my directories to be mounted. I have three directories to mount in a directory called `shared`, 
- `databases` is empty and is used for storing my data,
- `dolt` has a single `.json` file that stores my dolt configuration
- `server` has a single `.yaml` file that stores my server configuration
```

```bash
shared > ls
databases	dolt		server
shared > docker run -p 3307:3306 -v $PWD/server:/etc/dolt/servercfg.d -v $PWD/dolt:/etc/dolt/doltcfg.d -v $PWD/databases:/var/lib/dolt dolthub/dolt-sql-server:latest 
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: Entrypoint script for Dolt Server 0.50.10 starting.
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: Checking for config provided in /etc/dolt/doltcfg.d
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: /etc/dolt/doltcfg.d/config.json file is found
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: Checking for config provided in /etc/dolt/servercfg.d
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: /etc/dolt/servercfg.d/config.yaml file is found

2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Warn] [Entrypoint]: /usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh: ignoring /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/*
2022-10-27 18:07:51+00:00 [Note] [Entrypoint]: Dolt Server 0.50.10 is started.
Starting server with Config HP="0.0.0.0:3306"|T="28800000"|R="false"|L="debug"

```

> We can see both the config file was used successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can see both config files were used successfully.
```

mysql> use doltdb;
Database changed
mysql> create table mytable(pk int primary key, col1 varchar(20));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> insert into mytable values (1, 'first row'),(2, 'second row');
Query OK, 2 row affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> exit
```

We can check for directory `doltdb` created in our local `/shared/databases` directory. 

```bash
shared > cd databases && ls
doltdb
databases > cd doltdb && dolt sql -q "SELECT * FROM mytable"
+----+------------+
| pk | col1       |
+----+------------+
| 1  | first row  |
| 2  | second row |
+----+------------+

```

You can verify it has the data we created by using Dolt CLI Docker image if you do not have Dolt installed locally.

```bash
shared > cd databases && ls
doltdb
databases > docker run -v $PWD/doltdb:/doltdb dolthub/dolt:latest sql -q "USE doltdb; SELECT * FROM mytable;"
Database changed
+----+------------+
| pk | col1       |
+----+------------+
| 1  | first row  |
| 2  | second row |
+----+------------+

```

## Sample Dockerfiles <a name="samples"></a>

Here are a simple Dockerfiles that installs the latest version of Dolt to start with if you want customized Dockerfile for your use case.

> 

Reviewer: I'm probably just rehashing this... but... now that we have the official images, I'm not sure this info is as valuable anymore. We can point people to the official images and they can use them as an example if they want to create a custom image based off a different linux distribution or something.
